ContextKit Use Cases
====================

Must Have
---------

3:: Visualizing the situation - Connected/Disconnected. The menu items
will have different visuals when offline if they require a connection
to function optimally e.g. Email and online browsing. This should be
integrated with the appearance of the home screen and within
applications. (Homecreen, Menu, Connectivity)

5:: Automatic theme change e.g. time / location based themes
(fun/entertainment). During working hours the theme indicates the user
is at work, the time and location. The theme can change when work
hours are typically finished or according to a calendar. When a
workday is over or it is the weekend the theme could have a different
feel.

10:: Create reminder to show the note (e.g. shopping list) next time
visiting local store, create reminder to buy or do X when entering
store / shopping mall / specific location and time.

11:: Device informs me of timezone differences that may affect my
communications: e.g. calling a contact in LA when in Finland a query
is shown "it's 3am in LA - are you sure you wish to make the call?"

14:: If user is running and playlist ends then player will repeat the
playlist rather than stop and require user action to reselect. There
could be a visual to show the user the playlist is on repeat so they
know what has happened when they stop.

15:: View meeting location from Calendar meeting invitation, possibility
to navigate to location from current position

16:: Device offers a city guide or map if in a new location (after
checking that the local guide/map does not exist). User can choose to
purchase and use.

18:: Text-to-speech preview of messages (make "listen" option visible),
learn if user always wants to hear messages in the car or not

19:: The device becomes aware of the fact, that it is in an office
environment and assumes a special “profile”, with e.g. discreet
alarms, homescreen, theme

20:: Get location and orientation data when using the device camera. For
example, this data can be used to created automatic metadata and tags
to photos and videos when combined with reverse geocoding online
service or utilized to show nearby POIs and tappable links to them to
see more info from web/Maps application when watching through the
camera viewfinder (GPS+accelerometer+magnetometer)

21:: Automatically disable media online services and RSS feed updates
when user is roaming or no free Wi-Fi connection available based on
user preferences/settings

22:: When user is moving enlarge some of the buttons, so that it is
easier to press those in all media applications
(GPS+accelerometer). Adjusting the maps interface and/or available
tools based on user's current activity or mode of traveling (walking,
driving, etc.)

29:: Highlighted in the soup content and in contacts. Also related
content can be highlighted in different applications (e.g. browsing
photos, Jack comes near, all Jack’s pictures are highlighted)

30:: Displays relevant content useful for the user - traffic report
widget in car and during commute time - transit (bus/train schedule,
stops) information before and during commute time.

32:: Connecting to best available connection. If Wlan is available and
reliable the the device will connect through this.  When it is not
available the device will connect through the next best connect
possibility. There may be settings for the device to behave
differently on different connection types.

41:: Screen brightness increases/decreases depending on the
environment. For example; driving car at night time, screen is not
100% bright to save your eyes and not blind you.

Should Have
-----------

4:: Most used applications, links, data (device learns usage
frequency) appear on the home screen. Or the user can be prompted when
accessing most used apps whether apps should be added to home screen
for easy access. Unused apps on the home screen can fade away if not
used e.g. in a few months? (Except when S&S service priority?)
+
Dynamic widgets on the Home screen based on context e.g. if user
checks weather.com everyday via browser offer to add permanent weather
widget to home screen.

9:: Create reminder about telling a friend something e.g. when meeting
him/her the next time (bluetooth/wlan proximity) or when calling next
time. E.g. see a picture of daughter in Gallery => place reminder to
book a dentist to her in the next "booking slot". This could also work
with specific and related files being presented when in a meeting.

12:: The device suggests volume increases in noisy environments. This
may relate to ringing tone, music playback, movies etc. The volume
increases in noisy environments and back to the original setting when
the surrounding alters. The device learns the user patterns e.g. if
the user regularly overrules suggested adjustments then after a while
it is switched off.

17:: Reduce WLAN energy consumption by optimizing
activity. Automatically turn on / increase frequency of WLAN search
when there is likely to be a hotspot nearby - turn scanning
off/decrease frequency when it is unlikely (learning user's
environments and schedule) - user does not have to manually
activate/disable WLAN search.

23:: Settings: The device learns what the most often used setting items
are by the user, and always shows those most often used Setting items
out of the category /or show them on the top of the list.

26:: User is navigating from A to B, in search items "along the route"
are emphasized (if not navigating, items "close to current location"
are more important)

27:: User has indicated that he has to be in certain location at certain
time (e.g. calendar event, setting a "target location" in maps), alarm
when it's time to leave (based on distance and optionally also traffic
conditions, mode of traveling, etc.)

28:: Some context-based recommendations, suggestions, etc. showed
occasionally on the map (needs to be tested with the user if they like
this..)

34:: When device is on a desk or other hard surface the vibra is not
used for alerting, just the nice ring tone I've selected

35:: When the device is pulled from pocket/bag turn the background light
on and show the now playing song/FM radio channel/Internet radio
channel information on the screen automatically instead of tapping the
screen or opening the screen lock (ambient light sensor)

38:: When the device is in pocket, the sensitive level of touch screen
could be lifted to allow small set of gestures even if the device is
in the pocket (gestures through fabric)

40:: When device is steadily on table and music is playing, the now
playing view could start showing the song & artist names in large font
sizes (easy to read even from long distance)

42:: Unplugging headset pauses the music

Nice to Have
------------

7:: Phone learns from the users behavior, e.g. a user calls home when
leaving the office every weekday. The device adapts to this and
provides easy and quick way to perform the task, the user may not be
aware as the application will be launched in the background. This may
be in the ‘soup’…the user can look into the future. They can see
calendar events, and possibilities relating to their usage
patterns…user can flick the item away if it is not right.

8:: Meeting application: When in the meeting, business cards (with
photos) are automatically exchanged and visualized in the UI so that
they help the user to connect names with faces with sitting
order. This also means contact details can be exchanged.

24:: Application manager: Building In-device recommendation system: The
devices learns the user’s preferences of applications (by
analyzing/counting the usage of applications), the recommend the new
applications to the user to download and install.

25:: Personalization: The device learns the user’s personalization
preferences (the device could learn this if the user transferring some
personalization data from the old phone on the first time using the
new device), and set automatically some personalization settings for
the user (e.g. Ringing tone, background color, etc.)

31:: The device is set to behave differently in certain modes. For
example when you are driving you do not want to access your email and
text messages so automatic messages are broadcasted to any contacts
letting them know you are driving and will get back them when you are
done...and possible provide more information.

33:: Shouting “where are you” to the handbag, device turns the lights on
(easier to find)

36:: Shake device to play/show random media item

37:: When jogging/walking detect the pace and UI could propose songs
that would fit to the pace

39:: Turn device to jump to next media item + turn to another direction
to jump to previous media item (same with left/right swipes on touch
screen)

To be prioritized
-----------------

6:: Automatic connections and downloading content. The device
automatically pulls relevant content, alerts, feed updates, people etc
when it is connected (this may be set to a specific type of
connection). The user can review this updated content when they have
time. There could be a visual feature to show the user what content is
new/updated. The user may need the ability to teach the device what
they want to see and when. The device can also learn what the user
looks at and their usage patterns. This may inform content management
and filtering information.


13:: If there are new albums available from my favorite artists my
device has already gone and got if for me. I can do preview when
convenient and then purchase the album if I want.  The device suggests
what I will like based on my usage patterns and links with relevant
networks and friends.  Content could be a playlist entitled "new music
to try" or somehow be highlighted when appropriate e.g. when listening
to music which connects in some way to what you're listening to at the
time e.g. same artist. But as said before it bubbles to the surface,
or catches you eye in some way, NOT with a pop-up looking for a yes/no
response. Over time if you don’t play it, it would auto delete. Once
it catches your eye it would then preview it, then if you want to keep
it you do one click buy, no further download required, no waiting?
(just download), just spontaneous enjoyment. Trick we learnt through a
study is not to start 2nd guessing too soon as it takes time to learn
and gain trust, on both sides of the relationship.

43:: Weather and Location: Kate is now in Paris. She plans a bit about
what she wants to do in Paris but she would like more suggestions. She
checks her mobileand gets some suggestion about where she can go
today. The mobile suggests that she’d better go to the Louvre museum
rather than Eiffel tower today because it will be windy and cloudy.

44:: Weather, location and speed: Michi is in Espoo and needs to go to
Stockmann to meet his wife. He wants to buy some presents for his
friends. He drives his car to the city center and worries about the
heavy traffic jam. He put his mobile on the car dock to check a
possible route. The mobile recommends to park his car at the nearest
parking lot and take the subway directly to Stockmann.

45:: Weather, location and time: Kate and friends are enjoying the open
concert near Olympia stadium. The concert started at 7:00 PM and will
end around 9:00 PM. The mobile suggests some places to get food after
the concert. The recommended places are mostly in open areas as the
weather is beautiful. There are free beer coupons on the screen with
the recommendations. It is sunny outside so they pick on of the
recommendations.

46:: Weather, location and light: Roope is listening the music he owns
on his mobile. It seems to be snowy outside and gets dark. His has his
mobile set to offer him suggestions based on the weather and his
listening patterns so his playlist suugests a playlist related to the
snowing season and also has Christmas carols. This selection seems to
be based on his listening pattern including favorite genre and
artist. He’s satisfied with some of music on the list and starts play
one of them.

47:: When tagging there will be keyword suggestions from the context
engine. E.g. Name of location, weather, office/home and so on. The
user can browse contents by "cloudy" and photos shows cloudy pictures,
as previously tagged by the user.

48

49:: User is enjoying media e.g. music player, (internet) radio, images,
video or television and relevant adverts appear. Example: while
viewing photos an advert for the local print shop is displayed

50:: User creates or accepts an entry to calendar, maps or to-do-list,
etc. and related adverts are shown. Example: user ads mom’s birthday
into calendar and an advert for flowers appears or user plans a route
in maps and special “Ibis” hotel offers appear along the route

51:: User does a search for adverts based on a specific location or
context (ad pull).
+
Example: a vegetarian tourist arrives at a railway station in an
unknown city at Sunday 5pm, an ad-search shows English ads for
vegetarian restaurants in the area which are open now

52:: Users installs an application or widget on her phone which merges
adverts with other content like weather, news or timetables. Example:
user installs the “Helsinki weather” widget to her home screen which
also shows the most appropriate local activities for the current
weather

53:: If the user visits selected services with Direct UI then adverts
are more relevant. Example: if the user uses Hotmail from Direct UI
then advertisers are allowed to know that she belongs to a specific
target group and that she is currently in Helsinki


Notes
-----

Widget recommendation in widget library based on users
interestes, needs and most used applications

Updates management: the canvas probably will be very long,
there is no sense to update the widget all the time if they
are invisible in the canvas. So we need some smart management
system.

Widget functionality: as we all know, the widget is very
compact and only be able to provide limited functions, so it
would be great if the widget can provide the functionality
based on the context.

Widget configuration: if the configuration in the
corresponding applications has been changed, the widget itself
might need to be updated too.This can happen automatically.

Prioritize the sharing options based on the context. For
example, if I am chatting with you, and then I go to share
with friend, maybe your name should show up on the top. Or if
the contact bluetooth device is nearby, it would be good if we
can show it as options for the user.

Send email to nearby contacts. E.g. People in the same meeting
room to hare some documents

Recipient status. It can give some indication when you can
expect a reply

Email must react somehow to changes in
connectivity. E.g. Offering chance for offline browsing, if
there is no connectivity

Reacting to events. E.g. Silencing notifications of new
messages when user is in a meeting.

Kath and Hanna have activated WayFinder application, which
dynamically shows the direction and distance to the other
person. During the day, Hanna has found an interesting
Portuguese restaurant and defined a WayFinder anchor point
there. She now activates the anchor point and her phone shows
the distance and direction to the restaurant. Kath and Hanna
start walking towards the restaurant and are ready for a great
night in Portugal.

Kath has found a nice youth hostel. She takes a photo and
phone adds compass and GPS information to it. Kath sends the
MMS to Hanna so that they can find the place
easily. Additionally location data can also be used in picture
browser at home.

These areas still need to provide use cases. I am chasing up
asap.

Assobrowsing
Tagging
Sharing
Advertising - ideas in the vision document. The server is currenly down so this will be done tomorrow.
Search - suggestions in general should utilize heavily the context information
Clock & Calendar
People - contacts
Places & browser
	
